# Custom scorers

For some use-cases the standard set of stamps might not be sufficient. For example, a specific grant round might focus on participation in certain subcommunities, or feel that a certain bootcamp POAP is very important, or perhaps certain rounds might be better tuned to eliminate more Sybil’s at the cost of excluding more false-positives (e.g. a DeFi round) or tuned to be inclusive at the cost of missing more Sybils (e.g. an environmental or social cause that attracts more new users).

In these cases, the default weighting algorithm for passport scoring might not be sufficient. Therefore, the scoring can be customized. Customization can happen in the scoring service itself, by overriding the suggested weights. Development of a second layer of app that modifies the weights in the scorintg service is already a roadmap item for Gitcoin Passport. Users that override the weights would still be able to use the service as normal, but with an intermediate stage of weight-adjustment. Later, multiple scoring algorithms could be developed so that the service can satisfy as many use-cases as possible. Each time a user integrates the scoring service, a new instance of the scorer is created, meaning that many scorers with different configurations can exist simultaneously, serving different communities.

For users that to define their own scoring algorith, Gitcoin Passport offers a Software Development Kit that includes functions for reading and writing to and from streams in Ceramic (where Gitcoin Passport data lives), verifying and scoring Passport stamps. This gives complete freedom to developers to implement any algorithm they wish calculate their trust scores. However, they also have to deal with the data cleaning and validation steps that are taken care of as part of the scoring service. This includes de-duplication, where the service checks for users submitting the same stamps multiple times.